---
layout: post
title: Learning challenges
---

  I had mentioned before that my biggest challenge thus far has been learning __how__ to learn and it may seem vague to people who have not experienced that same phenomenon. I hate to do this, but I am super smart, and learning in school was never a challenge. I know what that sounds like but please listen. I was able to comprehend concepts more quickly than other students and the extra time taken on each subject caused me to lose interest. I never took notes or studied or did homework, and I aced tests. So my grades suffered even though my comprehension of the subject matter was up to par. I realize that this is how school works. It teaches you how to learn, whether or not you struggle with comprehension. It is setting you up for how to learn anything in the future, and I wish I had realized that as a dumb teen instead of a 30 yr old husband and father who is employed full-time and is trying to go back to "school."

  The challenge isn't in the task but in the shift in priority. I had always wanted to comprehend something firstly. I had never thought to take notes until I had to batter my stubbornness with the prospect of future struggle. Even in the first few projects I didn't take notes and then once I got caught up on something I would go back and redo all the lessons and take notes the second time. Believe me, I know what that looks like. It looks pretty stupid, because it is. I went through this cycle a few times before I had a sit-down with myself and said "look, jared, we gotta do this the right way, the most time-efficient way. You need to take notes when you're going through new concepts, whether or not you think you understand it, because you will need to apply it to a broader scope or a new perspective down the line." I did not like how I was talking to myself, but I was right.

  So, with my pep talks, and *sharing* my struggles with another person (my poor wife who is and has always been an excellent student), I have since shifted my thinking and focused my stubbornness into an effective learning method and it has benefitted me so far during this curriculum. I'm glad I was able to convince myself.
